docs/migrating_from_genshi.rst, before:

Migrating from Genshi
======================================

.. warning::
   This document is mostly obsolete.  Use at your own risk!

Kajiki uses syntax derived from the syntax of Genshi.  In particular, the
following directives are supported, with semantics intended to be nearly identical to
those of Genshi_.

 * `py:def`
 * `py:when`
 * `py:otherwise`
 * `py:for`
 * `py:if`
 * `py:choose`
 * `py:with`
 * `py:replace`
 * `py:content`
 * `py:attrs`
 * `py:strip`
 * `xi:include`

Note that, in particular, `py:match` is not supported.  In addition, Kajiki
supports the following additional directives: 

 * `py:include` - same semantics as `xi:include`, use if you don't like lots of
   namespaces in your xml
 * `py:extends` - indicates that this is an extension template.  The parent
   template will be read in and used for layout, with any `py:slot` directives in
   the child template overriding the `py:slot` directives defined in the parent.
 * `py:slot` - used to name a replaceable 'slot' in a parent template, or to
   specify a slot override in a child template.  The `py:slot` semantics are
   modeled after the `{% block %}` semantics of Jinja2_.
 * `py:super` - used to insert the contents of a parent `py:slot`, modeled after
   `{% super %}` in Jinja2_. 

Generally, migration consists of a few steps that can be simple or quite
difficult based on your fondness of the `py:match` directive in Genshi.  In
simple cases where you have one `master.html` template with a few `py:match`
directives that is `xi:included` into all your page templates, the following
steps should suffice:

 * You may need to rewrite some of our `xi:include` directives to use Kajiki's
   module naming system and relative imports.
 * In a simple case where you have only a few `py:match` directives, all of which
   are in a `master.html` template that is being included from child templates,
   I recommend that you rewrite the `master.html` as `layout.html`, defining
   named `py:slot` regions that will be overridden in child templates.
 * In your child templates, remove the `<xi:include href="master.html">` that
   probably lurks near the top.  Then add a `py:extends` directive to the
   top-level tag (usually `<html>`).  The tag the parts of the child template
   that are intended to override parts of the parent template with the `py:slot`
   directive.

Example Migration
---------------------------------

Suppose you have a couple of Genshi templates, one of which called `master.html`
and one of which is `index.html`.  (TurboGears developers may recognize these
files as slightly modified versions of the default templates deposited in a TG
quickstarted project.)  The contents of `master.html` are:

.. literalinclude:: include/master.html
   :linenos:
   :language: html

Likewise, the contents of `index.html` are as follows:

.. literalinclude:: include/index.html
   :linenos:
   :language: html

In order to perform our kajiki migration, we begin by creating two empty
templates.  The first one will replace our `master.html`, and we will call it
`layout.html`:

.. literalinclude:: include/layout.html
   :linenos:
   :language: html

Note the introduction of the `py:slot` directive, and the disappearance of the
`py:match` directives from `master.html`.  `py:slot` mimics the behavior of
Jinja2 "blocks", providing a name to a construct in a parent template which can be
replaced by the contents of `py:slot` -named constructs in child templates.  For
instance, the "title" slot in `layout.html`:

.. literalinclude:: include/layout.html
   :linenos:
   :language: html
   :lines: 10

can be replaced by a similarly-named slot in the child document `index_kajiki.html`:

.. literalinclude:: include/index_fastpt.html
   :linenos:
   :language: html
   :lines: 1-6, 9-10

We also provide a way of including the contents of the parent template's slot in
a child template's slot using `<py:super/>`.  The following slot in `layout.html`:

.. literalinclude:: include/layout.html
   :linenos:
   :language: html
   :lines:  18

can be replaced in `include/index_kajiki.html` with:
  
.. literalinclude:: include/index_fastpt.html
   :linenos:
   :language: html
   :lines: 12-15

Yielding the following html once rendered:

.. code-block:: html
   :linenos:

    <h1>My Header</h1>
    <h1>Some extra header data</h1>

.. _Genshi: http://genshi.edgewall.org/
.. _Jinja2: http://jinja.pocoo.org/2/documentation/

Commit message:

More doc updates
--HG--
rename : docs/include/index_fastpt.html => docs/include/index_kajiki.html
extra : rebase_source : 7fdba8042957f3a47229a24a1bf39d9ce804657a

docs/migrating_from_genshi.rst, after:

Migrating from Genshi
======================================

Kajiki uses syntax derived from the syntax of Genshi.  In particular, the
following directives are supported, with semantics intended to be nearly identical to
those of Genshi_.

 * `py:def`
 * `py:choose` -- renamed `py:with`
 * `py:when` -- renamed `py:case`
 * `py:otherwise` -- renamed `py:else`
 * `py:for`
 * `py:if`
 * `py:with`
 * `py:replace`
 * `py:content`
 * `py:attrs`
 * `py:strip`
 * `xi:include` -- renamed `py:include`

Note that, in particular, `py:match` is not supported.  In addition, Kajiki
supports the following additional directives: 

 * `py:extends` - indicates that this is an extension template.  The parent
   template will be read in and used for layout, with any `py:block` directives in
   the child template overriding the `py:block` directives defined in the parent.
 * `py:block` - used to name a replaceable 'slot' in a parent template, or to
   specify a slot override in a child template.  The `py:block` semantics are
   modeled after the `{% block %}` semantics of Jinja2_.

Generally, migration consists of a few steps that can be simple or quite
difficult based on your fondness of the `py:match` directive in Genshi.  In
simple cases where you have one `master.html` template with a few `py:match`
directives that is `xi:included` into all your page templates, the following
steps should suffice:

 * You may need to rewrite some of our `xi:include` directives to use Kajiki's
   module naming system and relative imports.
 * In a simple case where you have only a few `py:match` directives, all of which
   are in a `master.html` template that is being included from child templates,
   I recommend that you rewrite the `master.html` as `layout.html`, defining
   named `py:block` regions that will be overridden in child templates.
 * In your child templates, remove the `<xi:include href="master.html">` that
   probably lurks near the top.  Then add a `py:extends` directive to the
   top-level tag (usually `<html>`).  The tag the parts of the child template
   that are intended to override parts of the parent template with the `py:block`
   directive.

Example Migration
---------------------------------

Suppose you have a couple of Genshi templates, one of which called `master.html`
and one of which is `index.html`.  (TurboGears developers may recognize these
files as slightly modified versions of the default templates deposited in a TG
quickstarted project.)  The contents of `master.html` are:

.. literalinclude:: include/master.html
   :linenos:
   :language: html

Likewise, the contents of `index.html` are as follows:

.. literalinclude:: include/index.html
   :linenos:
   :language: html

In order to perform our kajiki migration, we begin by creating two empty
templates.  The first one will replace our `master.html`, and we will call it
`layout.html`:

.. literalinclude:: include/layout.html
   :linenos:
   :language: html

Note the introduction of the `py:block` directive, and the disappearance of the
`py:match` directives from `master.html`.  `py:block` mimics the behavior of
Jinja2 "blocks", providing a name to a construct in a parent template which can be
replaced by the contents of `py:block` -named constructs in child templates.  For
instance, the "title" slot in `layout.html`:

.. literalinclude:: include/layout.html
   :linenos:
   :language: html
   :lines: 8

can be replaced by a similarly-named slot in the child document `index_kajiki.html`:

.. literalinclude:: include/index_kajiki.html
   :linenos:
   :language: html
   :lines: 1-8

We also provide a way of including the contents of the parent template's slot in
a child template's slot using `${parent_block()}`.  The following slot in
`layout.html`: 

.. literalinclude:: include/layout.html
   :linenos:
   :language: html
   :lines:  16

can be replaced in `include/index_kajiki.html` with:
  
.. literalinclude:: include/index_kajiki.html
   :linenos:
   :language: html
   :lines: 9-12

Yielding the following html once rendered:

.. code-block:: html
   :linenos:

    <h1>My Header</h1>
    <h1>Some extra header data</h1>

.. _Genshi: http://genshi.edgewall.org/
.. _Jinja2: http://jinja.pocoo.org/2/documentation/
